2nd_hackathon/Preparation.md, before:

# Preparation information

When: 16.05.-17.05.2023
Where: Fritz Studer AG, Thunstrasse 15, CH-3612 Steffisburg

## What is the goal

- Implement OPC UA for Machine Tools on brownfield retrofitting equipment.
- Overcome hurdles in using OPC UA companion specifications.
- Broaden Knowledge about OPC UA information models and umati Initiative.

### What to bring

#### Mandatory

Your own development environment, e.g., Laptop, network cable, developer tools.

#### Optional

hardware you deal with, brownfield retrofitting equipment you are using or evaluated, OPC UA modelling tool (e.g. UaModeler, SiOME)

### What to prepare

Basic understanding of OPC UA information modelling, OPC UA technology,
Ideally basic understanding of OPC UA for Machine Tools (Basic Server Profile)
Knowledge about your equipment you want to retrofit.

## Planned Agenda

### Monday 15.05.2023

Community evening (self paying)

### Tuesday 16.05.2023

- 8:30 Welcoming, Introduction round
- 9:00 Impulse Talk, about OPC UA for Machine Tools, umati
- 9:30 Introduction of available and brought retrofitting equipment and test machines
- 10:00 Group work with breakout sessions.
- 13:00 Fingerfood Lunch
- 14:00 Coding and Hacking
- 18:00 Recap of the day
- 18:30 Joint barbecue
- Hacking and Networking
- 22:00 End Day 1

### Wednesday 17.05.2023

- 8:30 Sync and Joint Start
- 9:00 Hacking, documentation and preparation of the results
- 11:00 Learnings and results presentation of the groups
- 13:00 Lunch
- 13:30 Recap and Feedback round
- 14:00 End of Event

## Documentation

All results and learnings shall be documented during the event and afterwards in the joint repository above for everyone to use.

Commit message:

Update Preparation.md new talk

2nd_hackathon/Preparation.md, after:

# Preparation information

When: 16.05.-17.05.2023
Where: Fritz Studer AG, Thunstrasse 15, CH-3612 Steffisburg

## What is the goal

- Implement OPC UA for Machine Tools on brownfield retrofitting equipment.
- Overcome hurdles in using OPC UA companion specifications.
- Broaden Knowledge about OPC UA information models and umati Initiative.

### What to bring

#### Mandatory

Your own development environment, e.g., Laptop, network cable, developer tools.

#### Optional

hardware you deal with, brownfield retrofitting equipment you are using or evaluated, OPC UA modelling tool (e.g. UaModeler, SiOME)

### What to prepare

Basic understanding of OPC UA information modelling, OPC UA technology,
Ideally basic understanding of OPC UA for Machine Tools (Basic Server Profile)
Knowledge about your equipment you want to retrofit.

## Planned Agenda

### Monday 15.05.2023

Community evening (self paying)

### Tuesday 16.05.2023

- 8:30 Welcoming, Introduction round
- 9:00 Impulse Talk, about OPC UA for Machine Tools, umati
- 9:30 Talk: Comprehensible OPC UA for Devs in 10 minutes
- 9:40 Introduction of available and brought retrofitting equipment and test machines
- 10:10 Group work with breakout sessions.
- 13:00 Fingerfood Lunch
- 14:00 Coding and Hacking
- 18:00 Recap of the day
- 18:30 Joint barbecue
- Hacking and Networking
- 22:00 End Day 1

### Wednesday 17.05.2023

- 8:30 Sync and Joint Start
- 9:00 Hacking, documentation and preparation of the results
- 11:00 Learnings and results presentation of the groups
- 13:00 Lunch
- 13:30 Recap and Feedback round
- 14:00 End of Event

## Documentation

All results and learnings shall be documented during the event and afterwards in the joint repository above for everyone to use.
